# Project_5
  I started off this project by creating all of the components on the left side of the GUI window. To do this I started the HammingDistanceFrame constructor using a GridLayout layout manager with one row and two columns. From I made a panel for the left side of the window that used a GridBagLayout layout manager. This allowed more flexibility with the positioning of elements and made it look cleaner. I then added each element in its appropriate place, however, I didn't really like the positioning of some of the elements so I went back and added subpanels to group different elements and position them better. One panel holds the label that says "Enter Hamming Distance" and the text field corresponding to it. Another holds the "Compare with:" label, the combo box, and "Calculate HD" button. And a third holds all of the labels and text fields displays the number of hamming distances and the "Add station" button and text field. Using these panels allowed the elements to be grouped together and prevented some from sticking so far out compared to the majority of the elements. Next I created the HammingDistanceCalculator class which is used for all of the calculations in the program. The constructor takes the selected station and the selected distance at the time and stores them. The calcHammingDistance method uses a buffered reader to read in all of the stations from the file and then calculates the hamming distance. From there it checks what the distance is and then increments the appropriate value in an array to reflect the total number of stations with that hamming distance. The array is then returned. The selectedDistanceStations method also reads in the stations from the file and calculates the hamming distance. It then checks to see if the distance matches the selected one, and if so, adds that station to an arraylist which is then returned. 
  Next I implemented action listeners for the "Show station", "Calculate HD", and "Add station" buttons. For the Show station button, the action listener calls the selectedDistanceStations method and uses the arraylist that is returned to add each station plus a newline character to the JTextArea. A try/catch block had to be used because the method can throw an IOException that must be caught. Also before the stations are added to the text area its contents are cleared because otherwise each time the button is pressed it would simply added the new list of stations to the end of the old one. The Calculate HD action listener calls the calcHammingDistance method using a try/catch block to catch an IOException and then sets the text of the corresponding text fields to the values of the array representing the number of each distance. The Add station action listener was the most complicated because of the way I had set up the combo box. I had tried setting it up similar to how it was done in the lab, which worked fine, but didn't make it easy to add new stations to the list. To fix this, I made one method that read in all the stations from the file and added them to an arraylist, which was then called within another method that set up the combo box the first time. A third method then added the new station, sorted the contents, and readded each station to the combo box. Within the action listener itself it gets the text in the corresponding text field, makes sure it is the appropriate length and not already in the list, and then calls the method to add a new station and resets the text field. I also implemented the stateChanged method for the slider so that the value of the text field next to the "Enter Hamming Distance:" label always matches the value of the slider.
  After testing all of this and ensuring it worked properly, I moved on to the creative side of the project. In another class I had done some work with basic cyphers and decided to apply this knowledge to this project. To do this I created a panel to hold all of the components on the right side of the window. To provide a short description of how this part of the project worked I used two labels stacked on top of each other, which probably would have been done better if I had just used a JTextArea but oh well, it works. From there I added a subpanel to hold the selected station label and text field and a panel to hold the scrambled station label and text field. Below those I added two buttons, one that scrambles the selected station and another one that adds the new station to the list. Next was to add action listeners for the buttons. First I added an action listener to the combo box that sets the text of the selected station text field to the station selected in the combo box. Then, in the HammmingDistanceCalculator class I added a backwardsAlphabetize method. This method uses a hash map to store each letter and number and the letter or number in the opposite position. It then takes the selected string and for each character adds the opposite character to a new string, which is then returned. This string is then returned. Within the scramble button action listener, this method is called and then the scrambled string text field is set to display it. Finally, the addToList action listener calls the addNewStation method, passing in the scrambled string as a parameter, and clears the text box. I chose this because I thought it would be a unique way to generate new stations that could be added to the list to perform calculations on, and it turned out really well.
  My biggest problems were figuring out the addStation action listener and making sure calculations on the new stations were being performed correctly. I could improve the program and reducing the number of time the stations are read in from the file, as this is done in three separate spots and reducing that to one would improve the performance of the program. Overall though everything went fairly smoothly and although this project took a long time, I really enjoyed getting to see the result. My UML diagram is a png within the Project5 folder in this repository.
